-: Welcome back.
So in this lecture we are going to focus
on zero one Docker introduction.
So as part of Docker introduction, we are going to
see what problems we have with the current traditional
infrastructure and then how Docker is going to solve them.
In addition, what are the advantages of using the Docker
we are going to look into?
So for presentation slides, you can click on this link
and then view the presentation slides.
So the slides, whatever we are showing in this lectures
is also available here for you for download.
So moving on.
So if you go
to the zero one Docker, so we have something called
Docker architecture, right?
So in addition to Docker introduction
we are also focusing on Docker architecture.
So Docker architecture is like a series
of thumb Docker and introduce, which we need to be aware
of to understand and then play with Docker effectively.
So what is Docker Damon
and then what is Docker client or what are Docker images?
And then what are Docker containers
and what is Docker registry or Docker hub?
So all these terms,
whatever is introduced in Docker.
So we are going to understand as part
of the Docker architecture, Docker terminology section.
So let's go back over introductory slides and then move
on with the stuff, okay?
So in Docker introduction.
So first thing is what problems we have
with the traditional infra.
So let's see, what are the problems we are having?
So in the traditional infra,
we have the hardware infrastructure. On top of that
usually we install our respect, your operating system
like Ubuntu, [Unintelligible],
Red Hat or Cent Os, whatever it is.
And then when we are planning to deploy our applications
it's equal and OS level libraries we install
and also it's equal in dependencies we install.
So let's consider we have web server says [Unintelligible]
and then apps server says some spring boot applications
which are of Java type.
And then we also have databases as my skill.
So for those things, what are the OS libraries required?
We need to install them.
And then also the dependencies.
Example, if you want to run some JBoss or Tomcats
then you also install the JDK and all those things, right?
So like this, what all dependencies
of libraries and dependencies are required
we need to install and then handle them.
So now if you see installation
and configuration will be a biggest problem
in that traditional approach, okay?
So it is going to be time consuming and we need to
perform all these library install, dependency, install
and then these vendor product installs, all these things
across our environments
like dev, QA, staging
and then all the production environments.
So multiple times we need to implement them.
But when you consider Docker, so from Docker perspective
package it once and then leverage it
or use it across all the environments.
So one time work and then
after that everything is like packaged
and then it can be leveraged across environments.
Compatibility and dependency, right?
So we need to keep resolving issues related
to libraries and then dependencies continuously.
So if we do the voice upgrade, then what happens?
Again, the libraries, some libraries might break
and then we need to fix those libraries
or we need to fix the dependencies
or we need to upgrade the dependencies.
So like that we face multiple issues
from compatibility and then dependency issues when we are
on the traditional infra.
and inconsistencies across environments.
So if you have multiple five dev environments
five QN environments, five staging environments
and two production environments
it is very hard to track changes across these environments
and they end up with multiple inconsistencies.
But when in Docker, if you package it once and leveraging it
across all the environments, so then there is no chance
of missing or having the inconsistencies
in our Docker images.
Operational support.
So we need more resources to handle operational issues
on a day to day basis
because of your are going to scale your hardware
infrastructure heavily to support your operating system
and then needs from your environment's perspective, right?
So the server support hardware
and then software installations
and then patching, patching villages
all these things we need to spend lot of money
and then lot of resources to handle all those things.
When it comes to Docker, all these things will be
simplified.
So in addition, developer environments.
So when a new developer joins the team
the time it takes to provision is development environment
in traditional approaches, time taking.
And even most
of the time it'll not be a hundred percent right
But when we consider our developer environments
are Dockerized, then it is going to be a minute
or less than a minute two provision that respect
to developers and environment.
So all these problems, what are we are seeing
in traditional infra can be easily solved
using
Docker.
Moving on.
So let's see how a physical mission looks
like when we install the application.
So we have hardware infrastructure
operating system, libraries, dependencies installed
on that operating system
and we have deployed the web servers, app servers
and then databases on that physical missions.
So let's see, from physical mission to virtual missions
what is the difference, right?
So we have the hardware infrastructure
and in virtual missions we have the hypervisor.
And on hypervisor we create the virtual missions.
So we have the operating system for each virtual mission
and then we'll install the libraries
and then dependencies for those virtual missions.
And then we'll have the equivalent containers
equivalent vendor products installed
on those virtual missions.
Okay? So now if you see here
this is a little bit simplified version
from the physical missions.
But still the libraries
and then dependencies and then all these incompatibilities
are still going to be there
across environments and then you need to solve these things.
But in virtual missions also there is a concept
of creating a virtual mission image
and then leverage it across environments.
We have seen that, but still
with IP address changing, DNS name changing, and then lot
of other things we need to bring into the picture
when we are even using the virtual missions.
OVA images, or whatever is it.
Okay, so moving on to Docker.
So when we, when it is installed on a physical mission
with Docker, it is going to look like this.
Okay? So we have a hardware infrastructure
and we have the operating system on that.
We are going to install the Docker
and then we are going to run the containers.
So each container is a combination
of its own libraries dependencies
it will have its own operating system inside that.
And then we'll be installing the Nginx
or even the app servers and then databases, whatever it is
they'll have their own libraries and then dependencies.
So that once and
for all we are solving the libraries and dependencies.
And then we are going to package
and then use that Docker image across all environments.
So if you see here, so on the operating system
we are going to install the Docker in the same way.
If you see virtual missions with the Docker
so we have the hardware infrastructure
we have the hypervisor, and
on that we are going to have the
operating system for that virtual mission.
And then we are going to install the Docker.
And then from there we are going to deploy our
Docker images as containers on them.
So we can run multiple Docker containers
in a single virtual mission, right?
Based on the memory and then CPU limits, whatever we have.
So like this, you can run hundred containers
or 200 containers, all those things.
So nothing, there is no dependency
from our perspective from either hardware infrastructure
or hypervisor perspective.
Okay? So if this respective operating system is allocated
with equal and CPU and then ram
and then if those are minor containers
then you can run any number of those things.
Okay? So, but with that said
the core thing here is like Docker is flexible
for us the way how we want to use it
we can use it in a better manner.
Moving on.
So what are the advantages of using Docker, right?
So why containers?
So they are flexible.
So even the most complex applications can be containerized
in our recent days.
So they are very lightweight and containers leverage
and share the host kernel, making them much more efficient
in thumbs off system resources.
Done virtual missions, so they're very portable
so you can build locally
deploy to the cloud and then run anywhere.
So they're very loosely coupled.
These Docker images or Docker containers are
loosely coupled.
Containers are highly self-sufficient
and encapsulated allowing us to replace
or upgrade one without
disrupting others.
So they are very much scalable.
You can increase
and automatically distribute container replicas
across a data center.
So they are very much secure container supply
aggressive constraints and isolations to processes
without any configuration required on the part of the user.
So with that said
the Docker containers are flexible, lightweight, portable
loosely coupled, scalable, and then even secure.
So now moving on, we'll, we'll be looking
into the Docker architecture in our upcoming lecture.
So I'll see you in the
next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.